# Automatic-E-Challan-Generation-If-Vehicle-Is-Not-Insured
This model automatically adds a challan to the vehicle if it is not insured and sends a message to the registered mobile number.
A system that will detect the number plate of the vehicle whenever the image is captured and fines the challan if the vehicle is not insured. Here we use automatic number plate detection which has gained much interest during the last decade along with the improvement of digital cameras and the gain in computational capacity. The text is divided into four chapters. The first introduces the origins of digital image processing and a little resume about the following algorithms that are needed to develop the system which is the e-challan system the if vehicle is not insured using automatic number plate detection. The second chapter presents the objectives to be achieved in this project, as well as, the program used for his development. The following chapter explains the different algorithms that compound the system, which is built into five sections; the first is the initial detection of a possible number plate using edge and intensity detection to extract information from the image. The second and third steps, thresholding and normalization, are necessary to use the images in the following stages; the text of the plate is found and normalized. With the segmentation, each character of the plate is isolated for subsequent recognition. The last step reads the characters by Optical Character Recognition, which is a simple but robust way of recognizing structured text with a small set of characters. It is evaluated the system’s speed and error rate. Finally, the conclusions and future works are shown in chapter four. The database used here consists of details of various number plates whether they are insured or not insured.
